[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: I
promised you some good parts.
We're finally getting to a good part and
this is something that you probably
don't have experience with.
It's something called closure.
It's also called Lexical Scoping or
Static Scoping.
It's a consequence of
functions that can nest and
functions that are first class values,
and JavaScript has it,
and is almost completely right in
the way it implements them, and
it's maybe the best feature ever
put into a programming language.
The context of an inner function includes
the scope of the outer function and
the inner function enjoys that context
even after the outer function has
returned.
I expect that statement made no sense
to you at all and I understand that.
So, I'm gonna have to
explain this in steps.
So, we'll start with the observation that
functions scope works like block scope.
So, you're familiar with
the idea of block scope.
So next year, we'll probably have let
statements in most of our systems.
And here, we've got two blocks.
One inside of the other and
the inner block can see its variables, and
the variables of the outer block.
The outer block can only
see its own variables.
So, I assume everybody is comfortable
with the idea of block scope.
We've had that since 1960 and it's great.
So, we can do the same
thing with functions.
You can think of a function as simply
being a block with a little bit of extra
mechanism attached to it, so
that you can invoke it in the future.
That you don't have to do it immediately
and the same relationships apply.
So we've got the yellow function,
which can see a and
b and
the green function that can only see a.
Exactly the same relationship and we can
represent this relationship as sets.
So, this is the set of variables
that the outer function can see and
this is the set of variables
that the inner function can see.
Nothing surprising here, except that we
can describe this relationship in that
the set of variables of the inner function
encloses the set of the outer function and
that's why we call this closure.
>> Douglas Crockford: And it's kinda
too bad that we call it closure,
cuz most people think of closure
as meaning something else,
like retribution or vengeance.
Have been victimized, but I'm getting me
some closure and it's gonna feel good.
But it's not that kind of closure,
but that's what we're calling it.
So, we're kind of stuck with that and
it seems like a simple idea.
Just add nested functions, which have
what should be an obvious relationship,
because of the way that scope works,
but it took a long,
long time for this idea to get developed.
So, you needed a language
that had three things.
He needed lexical scoping.
He needed nested functions and
functions, as first class values.
And pretty early on, we got functions
that would have two out of three,
but we didn't get a function
that had all three until scheme.
Scheme was an experiment
at MIT in an attempt
to understand Carl Hewitt's
after model in their early 70s.
The experiment failed in that they never
did understand what Carl was talking
about, but they did discover
this new way of programming,
which I think was the most important
breakthrough in the history of computing.
And like all of the really important,
significant breakthroughs,
the world took no notice of it whatsoever.
And in fact, it took two generations
before we finally figured out
that this was a good idea and brought
it to the mainstream, but it was always
a good idea and the reason it took so
long was because of this problem.
So, we've got the same thing we had
before where we got an inner function and
an outer function.
But this time, the inner function survives
the execution of the outer function,
because the outer function is
returning the inner function.
So we will call the green function,
it'll allocate a on the stack.
It will return a new function and exit.
Now we want to call the yellow
function that it returned, but
yellow function wants access to a,
but a is no longer on the stack.
Boom.
It took us 20 years, 40 years to
figure out what to do about this.
Turns out the solution is trivial.
Don't use a stock, allocate all of
the activation records on the heap.
Get a good garbage collector, done.
Really, really easy, but
it took a long time to figure this out.
>> Speaker 2: Can you
repeat that solution?
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah, don't allocate
the activation records on the stack.
Allocate them on the heap.
Get a good garbage collector, done.
>> Douglas Crockford: That's it.
That is the whole whole thing.
So anyway,
this idea is discovered in scheme.
Takes a long time for
to finally get to the mainstream.
Anybody happen to know what was
the first language to bring this idea to
the mainstream was?
Anybody?
This JavaScript.
Javascript was the first language to
do this followed quickly by Python and
Ruby, C# got it.
Eventually, C++ got it.
PHP does it in a really half-assed way,
but they got it just last year.
Java finally got it.
Java was having a tough time keeping
up with his stupid little brother, but
it finally got this.
This idea took so long to get to the
mainstream that there was an opinion that,
well, it's not getting to the mainstream,
cuz it's not a good idea.
The proof that it's not a good idea
is that it hasn't been adopted, but
we're now adopting it and we're
adopting it, because it turns out it's
the solution to a lot of
the problems that we're having now.
Dealing with distributed systems and
asynchronicity, and
the things that we do now much easier if
you've got functions working for you.
And this particular pattern where we have
a function that survives another function,
a function that returns a function
is an incredibly powerful important
construction.
It's amazingly useful.
Amazingly powerful and we got it and
we got it first with JavaScript,
which is amazing.